Tutorial | Custom Shape Tool in C++ and Python (#1119)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/custom-tools/shape-example-py.md

    ```

2. (Optional) Register the Gem to your project. This step is optional because when you create a Gem using the O3DE CLI in the previous step, it automatically registers the Gem.

    ```cmd
    scripts/o3de register -gp <gem-path> -espp <project-path>
    ```

3. Add the Gem in your project by using the `o3de` script.

    ```cmd
    scripts/o3de enable-gem -gn PythonToolGem -pp <project-path>
    ```

    Or, enable the Gem using the Project Manager (refer to [Adding and Removing Gems in a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/add-remove-gems.md)).

4. Build the project by using the `o3de` script (refer to [Build a project](https://o3de.org/docs/user-guide/build/configure-and-build/#build-a-project)). Or, use the Project Manager (refer to the **Build** action in the [Project Manager](https://o3de.org/docs/user-guide/project-config/project-manager/)) page.

5. Open O3DE Editor for your project.

6. Open the **Python Scripts** panel by selecting **Tools > Other > Python Scripts** from the file menu. (See A in the following image.)

7. Open `pyshapeexample_dialog` in the Python Scripts panel. (See B in the following image.)

> 

Reviewer: Discussed this offline, this was a bug due to the fact that our shape example (and `PythonToolGem` template) weren't setting the `QtForPython` gem as a dependency correctly, so it wasn't being bootstrapped properly. This section can be updated to match the C++ version, where it is properly registered in the "Tools -> Examples" menu and has a toolbar icon.

We *should* move these details though down to the debugging section because it is great for quick iteration.

Now you can access the Shape Example tool! By default, this tool contains a simple user interface (UI). In the next steps, we'll design the tool's UI and code its functionality. (See D in the following image.) 

![O3DE Editor with a tool created using the PythonToolGem template](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/custom-tool/shape-example/python-shape-example-in-editor.png)

## Code directory

In the ShapeExample Gem's `Code/Source` and `Editor/Scripts` directories, you'll find the following classes and frameworks that make up your custom tool.

### Modules and system components

All Gems have modules and system component classes written in C++ that connect the tool to O3DE and allow it to communicate with other systems. The `PythonToolGem` template already contains all of the code needed to run the tool in the O3DE Editor. You can find these C++ files in `Code/Source`.

For more information on Gem modules and system components, refer to the [C++ Programming for Gem Development](docs/user-guide/gems/development/programming-for-gems.md) page.

### O3DE and Qt frameworks

> O3DE extends the **Qt** framework, so you will use [PySide2](https://pypi.org/project/PySide2/)---a Python module based on [Qt for Python](https://doc.qt.io/qtforpython/)---to create a graphical user interface (GUI). You will also use O3DE's EBuses to communicate with other O3DE interfaces, such as entities and components, and connect them to Qt elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
O3DE extends the **Qt** framework, so you will use [PySide2](https://pypi.org/project/PySide2/)---the Python bindings for Qt [Qt for Python](https://doc.qt.io/qtforpython/)---to create a graphical user interface (GUI). You will also use O3DE's EBuses to communicate with other O3DE interfaces, such as entities and components, and connect them to Qt elements.
```

You will write most of your tool's functionality and UI elements in the`PyShapeExampleDialog` class that's located in `Editor/Scripts/pyshapeexample_dialog.py`.

### Qt Resources

The [Qt Resource System](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/resources.html) allows Gems to store and load image files via a `.qrc` file. This eliminates the need to load image files from absolute paths, making it simpler for you to distribute your Gem. Later, you will store an image file to create an icon for your tool.

### Dialogs, Widgets, and layouts

With Qt for Python, you can create a dialogs which are top-level windows. 

> Qt for Python creates a top-level window called a *dialog*. Within a dialog are *widgets*, which are containers for UI elements, and *layouts*, which define how those UI elements are arranged. (In comparison, Qt in C++ creates a main widget instead of a dialog.) Each widget can have its own layout and additional sub-widgets. This nested widget and layout structure allows you to organize groups of UI elements.

Reviewer: We might want to discuss changing this to just be a QWidget as well instead of a QDialog for consistency. @HogJonny-AMZN

1. Add an image file to the `Code/Source` directory to use as your icon. In this example, the icon is named `toolbar.svg`. We recommend that your icon adheres to the guidelines in [UI development best practices](https://o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/uidev-component-development-guidelines/#ui-development-best-practices).

2. Add your icon to PyShapeExample Gem's resources by updating `Code/Source/ShapeExample.qrc` with your new icon's file name.

    ```xml
    <!DOCTYPE RCC><RCC version="1.0">
        <qresource prefix="/PyShapeExample">
            <file alias="toolbar_icon.svg">toolbar_icon.svg</file>
        </qresource>
    </RCC>
    ```

3. Register PyShapeExample Gem's resources to Qt Resource System by adding the following code in `Code/Source/EditorModule.cpp`. 

    - Define the function `InitShapeExampleResource()` and call `Q_INIT_RESOURCE(...)` to register the Qt resrouces listed in `ShapeExample.qrc`.

        ```cpp
        void InitShapeExampleResources()
        {
            Q_INIT_RESOURCE(ShapeExample);
        }
        ```

    - Call `InitShapeExampleResource()` in the `EditorModule` class's constructor.

## Build and debug your tool

> [todo]

Reviewer: Mentioned above what we want to put in here
